K8SPXC-504 create faq (#662)
percona/percona-xtradb-cluster-operator: source/faq.rst

Also, quickstart guides are related to specific platforms you are going to use (Minikube, Google Kubernetes Engine, etc.), and therefore may include some additional steps needed for these platforms.

Generally, rely on the quickstart guide if you are a beginner user of the specific platform and/or the Percona XtraDB Cluster Operator as a whole.

How HAProxy is better than ProxySQL?
================================================================================

Percona XtraDB Cluster Operator supports both HAProxy and ProxySQL as a load
balancer. HAProxy is turned on by default, but both solutions are similar in
terms of their configuration and operation under the control of the Operator.

Still, they have technical differences. HAProxy is a general and widely used
high availability, load balancing, and proxying solution for TCP and HTTP-based
applications. ProxySQL provides similar functionality but is specific to MySQL
clusters. As an SQL-aware solution, it is able to provide more tight
internal integration with MySQL instances.

Both projects do a really good job with Percona XtraDB Cluster Operator. The

> load balancer choice should depend mostly on your personal preferences,
> experience with one or another project and its usage in your current

Reviewer: ```suggestion
proxy choice should depend mostly on application-specific workload (including ORM),
performance requirements, advanced routing and caching needs with one or another project and its usage in your current
```

infrastructure, and (possibly) specific needs of the application.

> Why do we need to follow "the Kubernetes way" when Kubernetes was never intended to run databases?

Reviewer: can we move this question to the top

=====================================================================================================

As it is well known, the Kubernetes approach is targeted at stateless
applications but provides ways to store state (in Persistent Volumes, etc.) if
the application needs it. Generally, a stateless mode of operation is supposed
to provide better safety and sustainability. Moreover, it makes the
already-deployed components interchangeable.

In the case of state-centric applications (like databases), Kubernetes
allows to *separate* those parts of the application which *can* be treated as
stateless (the database engine, etc.) from parts that can not (actual data).
Depending on the usage scenario, this separation and the appropriate level of
complexity can bring additional load, like in the case of large databases with
massive replication, etc. But there are substantial benefits in automatic

> scalability and manageability. Please see `this blog post <https://www.percona.com/blog/2020/10/08/the-criticality-of-a-kubernetes-operator-for-databases/>`_ for more details.

Reviewer: Only the right architecture of the state-centric application (like databases) can allow avoiding the crash, data loss, or data inconsistency during hardware fail.
It is the main goal of the database operator to solve or simplify these aspects. In a non-Kubernetes environment, issues are the same. Unfortunately, we, Engineers, tend to think that crash, data loss, or data inconsistency issues are not important or not exists in the non-Kubernetes world.
Percona Kubernetes Operator for Percona XtraDB Cluster uses synchronous replication which guarantees consistency on any kind of fail of one cluster member. It has automatic recovery if one member fully or partially lost data. The proxy layer automatically switches traffic to alive members. And many other things which are typically are not solved at all in a typical non-Kubernetes setup.

================================================================================
Frequently Asked Questions
================================================================================

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 1

Why do we need to follow "the Kubernetes way" when Kubernetes was never intended to run databases?
=====================================================================================================

As it is well known, the Kubernetes approach is targeted at stateless
applications but provides ways to store state (in Persistent Volumes, etc.) if
the application needs it. Generally, a stateless mode of operation is supposed
to provide better safety, sustainability, and scalability, it makes the
already-deployed components interchangeable. You can find more about substantial
benefits brought by Kubernetes to databases in `this blog post <https://www.percona.com/blog/2020/10/08/the-criticality-of-a-kubernetes-operator-for-databases/>`_.

The architecture of state-centric applications (like databases) should be
composed in a right way to allow avoiding crashes, data loss, or data
inconsistencies during hardware fail. It is the main goal of the database

> Kubernetes Operator to solve or simplify these aspects.

Reviewer 2: The architecture of state-centric applications (like databases) should be
composed in a right way to avoid crashes, data loss, or data
inconsistencies during hardware failure. Percona Kubernetes Operator for Percona XtraDB Cluster provides out-of-the-box functionality to automate provisioning and management of highly available MySQL database clusters on Kubernetes.

It worth to mention, that in a non-Kubernetes environment issues are the same.
Unfortunately, we, Engineers, tend to think that crash, data loss, or data
inconsistency issues are not important or even do not exist in the
non-Kubernetes world, but of course that's not true.

Percona Kubernetes Operator for Percona XtraDB Cluster uses synchronous
replication which guarantees consistency on any kind of fail of one cluster
member. It has automatic recovery if one member had fully or partially lost
data. The proxy layer automatically switches traffic to alive members. The
Operator provides this among other things which are typically not solved at all

> in a typical non-Kubernetes setup.

Reviewer 2: And lets remove this completely. I believe it is covered by previous abstract. WDYT?
